= validate_block

* http://github.com/xunker/validate_block

== DESCRIPTION:

This gem allows similar ActiveRecord validates_* commands to be grouped together in blocks and pruned of repeated parameters.

How often have you had a block of validation commands in an ActiveRecord object that are repeated, especially :id or :unless options?  Does this look familiar?

  validates_presence_of  :hair, :unless => :bald?
  validates_length_of    :hair, :within => 3..15, :unless => :bald?
  validates_inclusion_of :hair_color, :in => HAIR_COLORS, :unless => bald?
  
Instead, this gem will allow you to replace the above code with:

  validate_block :unless => :bald? do
    presence_of  :hair
    length_of    :hair, :within => 3..15
    inclusion_of :hair_color, :in => HAIR_COLORS
  end
  
..which is a great way to DRY your :hair, don't you think?

Basically, this gem 1) removes the requirement to have 'validates_' on the front of the commands and 2) passes the options on the validate_block command to each validation command inside the block.

The syntax of the validation commands remains the same.  Keeping the 'validate_*' prefix on the commands inside the block _will_ work but it is not required.

WARNING: There are no specs for this yet because I suck.  Actually, it's because I don't properly understand how to spec a module like this so any help on that front would be appreciated.

== SYNOPSIS:

require 'rubygems'
require 'activerecord'
require 'validate_block'

class SomeObject < ActiveRecord::Base

  validate_block :if => :some_method? do
    presence_of :some_field
    inclusion_of :some_other_field, :in => SOME_VALUES
  end
  
end

== REQUIREMENTS:

ActiveRecord >= 2.1.0
Rspec (for specs)

== INSTALL:

sudo gem install validate_block

== LICENSE:

http://sam.zoy.org/wtfpl/COPYING